# Industrial-Group-Project
**Software analysis code for the PHYS 355 Industrial Group Project with TFP.**

The aim of this project is to characterise defects in PEM fuel cell materials produced by Technical Fibre Products Ltd (TFP). In particular, the presence of visually unappealing lines in the gas diffusion layers (GDL) of fuel cells has plagued particular carbon-based nonwovens manufactured by TFP. Such defects do not appear to hinder the technical performance of the GDL, yet impair the customer perception of product quality. This has called for a quantitative testing method to be devised, providing both a quantifiable determination of line severity, and a clear procedure through which future improvements can be assessed.

Various methods were explored to devise an automated and efficient testing process for batch samples. Analysis of such data is most easily achieved through automated software analysis, which can be found in its entirety on this repository. The bulk of the analysis software is written and managed in Python by Melissa Chung, Tom Fell and Michael Revell.

The initial intent involved exploring three different data collection methods. The first two methods produced images of the samples, which the team then aimed to analyse using various image processing and manipulation techniques. Such techniques include line and edge detection, Gaussian blurring and gradient calculations. The third method would produce an array of values indicating the relative light intensity detected through the sample, which would then be used to identify and measure relative maxima and minima.

However, due to COVID-19 lockdown-induced laboratory closures, the third data collection method could not be conducted. This meant the team had to fall back onto the results from the first two methods, and conduct image analysis primarily using scans of the samples. All required files can be found under _Industrial-Group-Project/image-processing_. The methods for this analysis are contained in `linefinder.py`, whilst the user interface can be found in `UI.py`. A database of the obtained results is collected in a .csv file, which can be opened and edited in Microsoft Excel. Finally, a collection of ineffective analysis methods can be found in the _didnt-work_ and _obsolete_ folders. 
